Well now we have our two U-V maps ready to go for our coffee table if we come over here to the materials
panel and we select the word and choose select in edit mode.
We get our U-V map for the world and if we then select that and select the table top and select that
we get the U.V. map for the top there.
Let's take each of these out into Photoshop and texture them.
So I'll come down here to Uvas go to export U-V lay out browse to my textures folder and here will call
this will create a new folder and we'll call this coffee table and in here we'll put our coffee table
top movies right there and notice that this is at 10:24 I'm going to go ahead and leave that at 10:24
by 10:24 for now we can always save out of Photoshop at a smaller resolution if needed.
But I'll go ahead and export that out.
Now I can de-select this.
Select the material of the wood select that and let's go ahead and export these out as well.
Export U-V.
Lay out 10:24.
Let's put it in our textures coffee table and we'll put this we'll call this coffee table would underscore
Uvas.
All right.
So now we have that exported out so we can open it in Photoshop here in Photoshop or just go to File
Open and I'll browse to that textures folder.
Here's my coffee table.
I'll go ahead and open up both of these open.
And there we go.
So now let's work on the wood one here since we have that up.
I'll just press Z and drag to zoom in I'll change this layer over here to call it Uvas So we know what
that is.
And now it's time for us to find a woodgrain texture so we can go to Google images and see if we can
find wood grain texture seamless.
Let's try that.
Not too bad.
I'm going to click on search tools go to size and large and I want something more like this.
That's not bad.
This isn't bad.
Yeah let me try something like this.
So now I'm going to press control or command a control or command C to copy and I'll come over here.
To the would you use and paste it with control or command VI or drag that down beneath the movies.
Hit the Wii key to my transform tool I'm going to click up here to show transform control so I can see
the little handles here and press shift and click and drag and move this down like this so maybe if
I do something like this that woodgrain might be small enough for this.
Yeah let's try that.
So I'll hit my transform tool.
Allt shift and click and I'll begin going through the process of copying snapping moving over one pixel
to try and build up the woodgrain for this U-V map and with all of these selected I'll do the same thing
with alt shift bring down snap and move it up a pixel same down here.
And just fill this whole thing with woodgrain
right.
So now you can see that I've got all the woodgrain going in the same direction which was easy and that's
why I aligned all of the U-V islands up and down so I could do that.
So before we collapse all these down or merge all the layers.
Let's test it out and make sure it looks OK.
So I can come up here to file export and export as.
Or once again shift all control or command w.
So I'll do that.
And let's export this out and let's call this coffee table would underscore see for color map and let's
test it out so I'll go over to Blendr here and for the material for the would appear in the note editor
I'll press shift a I'll choose texture and image texture.
And I'll click open and I'll browse to find that color map.
There it is.
Underscore see what's come down here and select the texture viewport shading and see how we did.
It's not too bad.
That looks sufficiently cheap and that's what I'm going for here.
But it looks a little too clean.
So yes I'm going to find one of my grunge maps and layered on top of that because that's just too plain.
Let's go back to photoshop and let me open up one of my grungy maps.
I've got a few here.
So let's take a look.
Yeah use that one earlier.
That's not bad and it has kind of a wood grain quality to it.
That's not bad.
Let me go with this one here that for some reason speaks to me control or command a control and command
see.
Let's go back to the word and I'll paste it.
I'll turn on the U-V islands here and let's maybe bring this down a bit it's kind of big you can see
I'm going to bring this down to something maybe I'll just try and once again put it over the whole thing.
Let's try this sometimes this just works.
I'll change the blending mode to multiply and I'll reduce the opacity Let's try that OK let's try that.
I'm going to save and for this I'm going to save it as a PSEG once again and I'm going to just remove
these here so I'll save it as a coffee table would Steve and we go and now I'll go and export it out
right here.
Export as save it again overnight it and let's come back to blender and re reopen it now when we do
this using unity it's going to be easier because Unity actually auto updates when you bring in or when
you replace a file.
So here we go.
That's not too bad.
It's looking a little grungy or yeah I think for now I'll go with that.
All right so now we need the top to be kind of a formica finish.
Let's go back to photoshop and take a look at that other U-V map.
All right over here let's take a look at this one.
Now this is the table top.
Let's go through the same process call this Uvas.
And for this let's see if we can find another material that looks kind of like what I'm after.
So here I've searched for for Micah's seamless textures just to see what I come up with.
I'm not seeing much that I like.
Here we go this is something that I'm kind of looking for this kind of very faint texture to it.
Yeah I think I want to go with this.
Here it is opened up in Photoshop.
Copy it just like we did before and pasted in here.
All dragged down beneath the movies and let's scale it down so it fits on here.
And we go so alt shift click and drag snap and do it one more time here.
All right.
So let's test this out.
I think I'm going to want a little bit more dirt on it and maybe some stains.
But let's test this out and see how it looks.
There's a repeatable pattern right here or a visible repetition that I'm not fond of right here.
We might need to take care of that.
I think what I'll do is I will hit the I key to sample and then come over to the brush tool and let's
go ahead and combine these layers over here with control or command E and now with my brush tool I'll
change it to something that has a soft edge to it.
And when you increase the size a bit it's that opacity 100 let's take this down to 50 percent to do
that.
You can just hit the five key on the keyboard for opacity and shift 5 for flow and then I'll just come
in here and begin kind of breaking up the pattern just a little bit so it doesn't look quite so continuous
or or repetitive.
All right there we go.
So let's test this out.
Let's go to export and we'll export this one out as well so these are just tests right now.
We'll clean these up here in a minute.
Let me go back to Blendr and let's select this material the table top and let us in the note editor
bring our texture in here with shift a texture image texture open.
And here is the coffee table top.
And there we go.
So yeah I think that's going to work pretty well.
What I want to do though is to create a few stains on the top here.
All right so I've opened these up in Photoshop just go ahead and copy them and take them over to that
table top.
And they're kind of big which is fine.
I'll shrink this down a bit.
Let's see if we can put this in place and kind of blended in.
So maybe a coffee cup would be about this big let's say and now what I can do is come in and reduce
the opacity a bit.
I can try and change it to multiply but I don't think that's going to really help a linear burn.
Let's see.
No that's a little too much so I'll just take the opacity down.
Something like that.
And then let's come in with the erase tool.
And once again I've got the opacity at 50 and the flow at 50 and I'm just going to kind of erase the
edges around here a bit.
And I'm also going to come in and take this stained one that one that I thought maybe might work well
just over the whole thing.
Put that underneath here.
And let's see if we can put that over the whole thing.
I'll turn the UVA's back on.
Drag that over the whole thing just to get a general state of nastiness over that.
And let's reduce the opacity a bit.
Something like that.
And then we can come back and work with this I'll increase the opacity just a little bit here.
So it looks kind of gross and then maybe come back with the Eraste tool and try and get rid of some
of those edges there.
Right.
Let's bring in that other coffee mug stain here.
And for this one maybe I'll put it over on the other side.
All right so now that we have our texture map done here in Photoshop Let's go ahead and clean up these
U-V maps.
Well let's do is go to the magic wand tool over here or the W key and I'm going to select the Uvas layer
click to select everything around the U-V island go to select modify contract and maybe bring it back
to pixels or so I can take all of these and merge them down into one layer.
And I think actually what I'm going to do is just to be safe I'm going to select all of these and press
alt and click and copy these and then press control or command e to then collapse them all so that I
can hide these these are my original layers and if I ever want to come back here and modify it I can
do that here.
Now I can select these and put them in a group or a folder and I can just call these originals.
And you go so just so I don't lose what I've done now that I have this.
And the movies or the outside of the movie islands selected I'll just delete that controlled or commanded
to de-select create a new layer make sure it's black hat g for the bucket tool and put that back there.
So now we have a texture map for the top.
Export it out and then we go
and let's come over here to this one.
Let's go ahead and select the UVA's hit the W key and select outside the U-V islands.
I will contract these with select modify contract to pixel's.
Now I'm going to go and take all of these and collapse them down.
I don't think I need all of those so control were command E and we'll call this word we'll call this
Solaire grunge.
And now I can select the grunge layer and hit delete the wood layer delete and then create a new layer
behind all of this hit G for the paint bucket tool control command d to de-select everything and paint
right back there on that back layer.
So now there are our texture maps.
So let's export this one out to and this is the wood right.
The wood color.
All right.
Let's do that.
And replace.
There we go.
Let's go back to blender and see how it looks.
Here we are.
I will go ahead and replace this one with the coffee table top.
Ooh that looks disgusting I like it.
And I'll go ahead and replace the bottom one.
The wood here with our cleaned up texture right here.
And there we go.
So there we have our textured coffee table.
What we'll do next is take it into unity and see if the materials look any different than we had before
with the couch.